The Recipe Builder (TRB)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intent: To have a helping hand in collecting, editing and developing a file of personal recipes.  The recipe GUI is
organized by sections or panels.  There are five: Header (includes the recipe title and useful notes), Summary
(includes the basics of the recipe), Ingredients (includes the ingredients), Nutrients (includes the breakdown of the
nutrition facts, if available) and Instructions (includes the step-wise directions). You can create a new recipe from
scratch.  You can also import recipes from multiple recipe sites online. These recipes will be saved in your "Recipes"
folder, and you can then open them and manipulate them as you desire.
NOTE: replace button with menu item.

The items that grey out when you hover over them are editable by either clicking, click-move or double-clicking on them.
Those fields are completely editable. The text fields behave like text fields. A single left click selects the field. A
double left click selects the text and a triple left click selects all the text in that field. Information can then be
added or deleted. The information is then updated if you hit the Enter key or press the UPDATE button.  The ingredients
should be ordered by when they are introduced to the recipe and the instructions are in order of first step to last.
The nutrients are arranged by how they are presented on the website and can be altered in the form. Please be aware that
you cannot ADD or DELETE the fields from the Header panel and when in the Header panel, the ADD and REMOVE buttons are
disabled. The Header panel contains the recipe title and the notes.
A field up or down the list by left-clicking the mouse on the label or text field. Move the mouse while holding the left
mouse button down, you will see a 'double-arrow' to signal that you can drag the field up or down and then release the
left mouse button to drop the field into its new resting place. See EDIT below for more information.

Capabilities:

    Moving around the window: All fields are available by clicking into them.  You can make changes in a field and press
    the Enter key to update the field or press the update button. You can press the Ctrl + Tab key to move from one
    field to the next within each panel and to move to the next panel. Don't forget to hit the 'Enter' after adding new
    information as this will update the formatting, numbering and styling. When any button is 'grayed' out when you
    click on a panel, it means that the button is not functional for that panel.

    EDITING: When you want to edit a label in any of the panels, move the cursor over the label or the title and
    click-release the left button on the mouse (or the touchpad) for the CHANGE LABEL NAME dialog to appear. Enter the
    new name and press the submit button. You should see the new name show up. When you want to edit the value, left
    click in the text box and make any changes and press the Enter key when you are done. This should update the fields.
    The labels for the Ingredients list and the Instructions list are created for you so you cannot change them.
    You can change the order of the items in the lists by holding down the left mouse button while the cursor is over
    the item that you want to move. While holding the button down, move the item up or down the list and then release it
    where you want the item to be placed. When you get to the item level then release the button. You will see a
    'up-down-arrow' icon while you are moving the values.
    In the header panel where you can make 'chef notes', you can add a new line by pressing the <Return> key. This way
    you can format this area to your liking. The formatting is saved with the file.
    One important point. When you want to select part of a word in the text box, you cannot left-click and drag the
    cursor because the program will think that you want to move the field. Instead, you will need to click at one end of
    the text that you want to select and then shift+left-click to select that part of the word.
    When entering text into the Header, Ingredients and Instructions panels text boxes, you should be able to format the
    text as either a capital or lowercase letter. Make sure that you save the file to preserve this formatting.
    In the Summary panel, the category label is a special_text using the title case for any text box entries.
    Be sure to hit the Enter key or press the UPDATE button once you are done.
    If you enter something and then change your mind, you can UNDO changes by pressing CTRL+z. This is purported to be
    unlimited, but I'm hopeful that you will let me know if you find this is not so. I have found that if you type a
    change in a text box, the undo and redo will work as long as you have not updated the change. An updated change
    cannot be undone, apparently. But you can select it and change it to your liking. Redo is 'Ctrl+Shift+z'.
    If you want to change the name of your recipe, all you need to do is double click on the title of the recipe and
    enter the new recipe name. Once finished, click submit and save. The recipe folder will be updated with the new
    recipe name when you save it.

    NEW: The NEW button will check if the currently opened recipe has any changes and ask if you want to save them
    and then clear the screen and bring up an empty template. From here you can design your next greatest recipe of all
    time. Instead of pressing the NEW button, you can use the key combination: 'Ctrl+n' (Mac 'CMD+n').

    OPEN: Pressing this button brings up a filedialog asking you to select the recipe that you want to open.  I'm still
    working on the 'double click' option for this, so for now you have to select the recipe from the list and then click
    the Select Folder button and if the files are there, you will shortly see the recipe.  The program will let you know
    if any of the files are absent, and the program will show the parts of the recipe that it could find.  You can
    continue to edit the recipe, add the sections that are missing and then save it for later. Instead of pressing the
    OPEN button, you can use the key combination: 'Ctrl+o' (Mac 'CMD+o').

    ADD: There are two ways to do this. First, select the panel that you want to edit so that the blue border is lit.
    Then press Ctrl+a and the ADD dialog for the panel selected will appear for you to enter the data for the new label
    and value. Second, just press the ADD button. If you do not click on a panel before pressing 'CTRL+a' or ADD button,
    a dialog will appear asking for the name of the panel that you want to edit followed by the appropriate panel dialog
    will appear for you to enter the data as above. If you click in the panel that you want to ADD a label/value, then a
    dialog will appear asking for the label name and the value information. You cannot add or delete new fields in the
    Header panel. When editing the Header panel, the ADD and DELETE buttons will be disabled. 'Ctrl+a' (Mac 'CMD+a').

    REMOVE: This allows you to remove a label/value pair from the selected panel, other than the Header.  You will be
    asked to click on the field that you want to remove, if not done.  The remaining values will be reorganized.
    Instead of pressing the DELETE button, you can use the key combination: Ctrl+d. This works like with the ADD button
    only the item will be deleted. If there are no values in the panel, then DELETE will be disabled. 'Ctrl+r'
    (Mac 'CMD+r')

    UPDATE: Pressing this button will update all changes that you have made to the recipe.  It does not save the changes
    to the file.  You will be reminded to SAVE the recipe file, if you haven't done it already saved it, when you press
    the NEW, OPEN or QUIT buttons. You will then be asked if you want to save your changes or not.  Pressing "YES" will
    save the files.  Pressing "NO" will continue without saving the files and continue to your next desired action.
    'Ctrl+u' (Mac 'CMD+u')

    SAVE: The program will look for the directory of the current recipe to be saved.  If it does not find one, you will
    be prompted to enter the name for the recipe.  You can name your recipe anything you want, but it is recommended
    that you use a name that will let you find it again.  So instead of recipe1 or recipe_1, perhaps try 'My Delicious
    French Onion Soup'.  Not only will you find it easier, but it might also motivate you to create it. Instead of
    pressing the SAVE button, you can use the key combination: Ctrl+s. If the save dialog does not come up, then there
    is nothing that needs to be saved. You can press the UPDATE button and then press the SAVE button and the save
    dialog should appear. Name your recipe by changing "Untitled Recipe" to your chosen recipe name. You will
    not be able to save a recipe until you name it with a name that is not duplicated. 'Ctrl+s' (Mac 'CMD+s')

    IMPORT: Recipes can be imported from many different sites. However, some will fail. To try to import a recipe, copy
    the url of the recipe webpage and paste it into the dialog box when requested.  The recipe will be scanned (scraped)
    and then saved locally for you to then open in the RB program. Instead of pressing the IMPORT button, you can use
    the key combination: Ctrl+i. If you want a recipe from the site, you can send me (mwcole1954@gmail.com) a copy of
    the url for me to investigate, or you can copy and paste it into a blank recipe template or both if you don't want
    to wait. Not all imports will work. This is dependent on the structure of the web page. When the import is
    successful, the recipe will be opened in the application. If there is another recipe opened, it will be checked to
    make sure that it has been saved before opening the imported recipe. I have found that when I know that I am
    importing a brand new recipe and the import message states that the recipe file exists, that means that there were
    errors in reading the file. Many times, this could be due to entering an URL that is not directed to the actual
    recipe page. You can save the file but there probably won't be much useful information presented. You can always
    delete the file when you are done with it. 'Ctrl+i' (Mac 'CMD+i')
    Current recipe sites that 'mostly' work: allrecipes.com, eatingwell.com, cookingprofessionally.com,
    simplyrecipes.com, epicurious.com, delish.com, bonappetit.com, foodnetwork.com, pinchofyum.com, southernliving.com.
    These are the ones that I have tried so far. Let me know what other recipe sites work for you.

    SEARCH: The search allows you to search your recipes folder for foods that you have tagged.  The dialog box will
    present two radio buttons: Category and Ingredients. Category is the default and is already chosen for you. You
    can change this by clicking on the Ingredients radio button. In the next field, you can enter any number of criteria
    for the Category or Ingredients. Use the values that you have entered previously for Category; such as dinner,
    lunch, easy, hard, side, etc. You can enter any tags that you want and they can be seperated by spaces or commas.
    The searches are 'OR' based. The Category search will just list the matches. The Ingredients search will list the
    matches ordered by the the number of matches for each recipe. You can then select from the list and open that
    recipe. 'Ctrl+Alt+s' (Mac 'CMD+Alt+s')

    PRINT: Printing is rather primitive at the moment.  Upon pressing the PRINT button, the current recipe will be
    formatted for printing, a .txt file will be created and stored in the recipes' folder, and then you will see
    the preview.  On windows, this is done using the Notepad app.  The recipe that you want to print will need to be
    open in the application. If there is no recipe open, then you will be asked to open the recipe that you want to
    print. 'Ctrl+p' (Mac 'CMD+p')

    DELETE: You can delete any recipe in your database. A dialog opens and you select the recipe folder name that you
    want to delete and click the Select button. A message will report that the deed has been done. You can delete a
    recipe even though you have the recipe open in your application. You will be prompted to save the current recipe.
    Press 'Yes' if you do, 'No' if you don't. 'Ctrl+t' (Mac 'CMD+t')

    QUIT:  This should be self-explanatory, but I decided to add it for completeness.  There is nothing like a little
    ZEN in our lives from time to time. 'Ctrl+q' (Mac 'CMD+q')

